# Basic-of-valuation

1. Understanding Net realizable value ( NRV )
   
                                                    BV
                  Non- current assets             1 000
                  Current assets                  1 200
                  Inventory               500
                  Receivables             300
                  Cash                    400
                                                  2 200
                                    _____________________ = -
                Common equity                    1 300
                Share capital       400
                Reserves            900
                Bonds                           400
                Current liabilities             500
                                    ---------------------- = - 
                                                2 200
 The following information is available:
• Non-current assets contain land and  buildings that are valued $700,000 above  their book value, and plant and machinery,  which would sell for $200,000 less than their book value.
• Inventory would sell for $400,000 and only  $250,000 would be realized from receivables.
• Closure costs would add $100,000 to liabilities.
   

2. Checking your understanding (2)
A trading entity has a P/E ratio of 16. The profits before tax for the year
are $1,75 mln and the tax charge for the year is $0,5 mln. Bad debts
included in expenses were $0,65 mln and the entity usually has bad
debts of $0,15 mln. What value would be placed on the entity using a
P/E ratio basis?

3. Checking your understanding (3)
In a private company total profit after tax is $900,000 including $40,000
rental income net of rental expenses. The balance-sheet includes
investment property at market value of $800,000 and other net assets
of $4 mln. The P/E ratio of the core business of the company is 9. What
is the value of the company?

4.  Checking your understanding – Dividend yield
         co. Current price  Dividend Payout ratio
         A    33,5          2,48       80%
         B    15,8          0,58       35%
         C    3,4           0,18       40%

5. Discounted cash  ( DCF ) Test 1
The following information has been found in the statement of profit or loss and statement of financial position of Be Healthy Co. These cash flows are expected to continue every year for the foreseeable future.

Required:
Calculate the value of equity.

            Financial statement item             $$$ mln
            Revenue                                  400
            Produce expenses
            Administrative expenses                  24
            Tax allowable depreciation               31
            Capital investment  in year              48
            Corporate debt trading at                116%
            Corporate debt nominal value             21
            Tax                                      25%
            WACC ( in nominal terms )                14%
            inflation                                3% 

6. Discounted cash flow
A company has annual after-tax free cash flows of $2 million per year which are expected to continue in perpetuity. The company has a cost of equity of 10%, a before-tax cost of debt of 5% and an after-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8% per year. Corporation tax is 20%.

Required:
Calculate the theoretical value of the company.


# ISSUE. Economic value added ( EVA ) / Residual value
Division A made a operating net profit of $10,000 during the most recent financial year. The capital used by the division equity plus long-term debt) was $70,000. The weighted average cost of capital of the company is 13%.

Required:
Estimate the EVA generated by the Division A.
         
                           $$$
         Profit          10 000
         finance charge  -9 100
         Residual incom      90

7. DCF ( discounted cash flow )  vs. EVA  ( Economic value added )
You are considering to evaluate a potential acquisition target with the following characteristics.

         Period                       1      2      3      4      5   post-horizon
         sales growth %               8      5      7      6      5      0
         operating profit margin %    20    20      17     15     12     10
         Cash tax rate, %             30    30      30     30     30     30 
         IFCI, % of change in sales   2     3       5      4      2      0
         IWCI, $ of change in sales   10    10      12     8      5      0
         
         Required:
         Estimate the target company value using DCF and EVA approaches.


